.github/instructions/Compiler.instructions.md, before:

# Roslyn Compiler Instructions for AI Coding Agents

---
applyTo: "src/{Compilers,Dependencies,ExpressionEvaluator,Tools}/**/*.{cs,vb}"
---

## Architecture Overview

Roslyn follows a **layered compiler architecture**:
- **Lexer → Parser → Syntax Trees → Semantic Analysis → Lowering/Rewriting → Symbol Tables → Emit**
- Core abstraction: `Compilation` is immutable and reusable. Create new compilations via `AddSyntaxTrees()`, `RemoveSyntaxTrees()`, `ReplaceSyntaxTree()` for incremental changes
- **Internal vs Public APIs**: Use `InternalSyntax` namespace for performance-critical parsing; `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis` for public consumption

### Key Directories
- `src/Compilers/Core/Portable/` - Language-agnostic compiler infrastructure
- `src/Compilers/CSharp/Portable/` - C# compiler implementation  
- `src/Compilers/VisualBasic/Portable/` - VB compiler implementation
- `src/Dependencies/` - High-performance collections (`PooledObjects`, `Threading`)
- `src/ExpressionEvaluator/` - Debugger expression evaluation (uses special `LexerMode.DebuggerSyntax`)
- `src/Tools/` - Compiler tooling (BuildBoss, format tools, analyzers)

## Essential Patterns

### Test Structure Convention
Inherit from language-specific base classes: `CSharpTestBase` for C#, `VisualBasicTestBase` for VB
```cs
public class MyTests : CSharpTestBase
{
    [Fact]
    public void TestMethod()
    {
        var comp = CreateCompilation(sourceCode);
        // Test compilation, symbols, diagnostics
    }
}
```

### Memory Management
- **Avoid LINQ in hot paths** - use manual enumeration or `struct` enumerators
- **Avoid `foreach` over collections without struct enumerators** 
- **Use object pools extensively** - see patterns in `src/Dependencies/PooledObjects/`
- **Prefer `Debug.Assert()` over exceptions** for internal validation

## Build & Test Workflows

### Essential Build Commands
```powershell
# Full build (use VS Code tasks when available)
./build.sh

# Build specific components  
dotnet build Compilers.slnf                    # Compiler-only build
dotnet build src/Compilers/CSharp/csc/AnyCpu/  # C# compiler

# Generate compiler code after changes
dotnet run --file eng/generate-compiler-code.cs
```

### Testing Strategy
- **Unit tests**: Test individual compiler phases (lexing, parsing)
- **Compilation tests**: Create `Compilation` objects and verify symbols/diagnostics
- **Cross-language patterns**: Many test patterns work for both C# and VB with minor syntax changes
- **Keep tests focused**: Avoid unnecessary assertions. Tests should do the minimal work necessary to get to the core assertions that validate the issue being addressed. For example, use `Single()` instead of checking counts and then accessing the first element.

## Debugger Integration

**Expression Evaluator** uses special parsing modes:
- `LexerMode.DebuggerSyntax` for expression evaluation
- `IsInFieldKeywordContext` flag for context-aware parsing
- `ConsumeFullText` parameter for complete expression parsing

## MSBuild Integration

Compiler tasks are in `src/Compilers/Core/MSBuildTask/`:
- `Csc.cs` - C# compiler task
- `Vbc.cs` - VB compiler task  
- `ManagedCompiler.cs` - Base compiler task functionality

## Performance Considerations

1. **Lexer/Parser optimizations**: Use `InternalSyntax` types for performance-critical code
2. **Immutable data structures**: Roslyn heavily uses immutable collections and copy-on-write semantics
3. **Caching**: `Compilation` objects cache semantic information - reuse when possible
4. **Threading**: Most compiler operations are thread-safe through immutability

## Symbol Resolution

Navigate the symbol hierarchy:
```cs
var compilation = CreateCompilation(source);
var globalNamespace = compilation.GlobalNamespace;
var typeSymbol = globalNamespace.GetTypeMembers("MyClass").Single();
var methodSymbol = typeSymbol.GetMembers("MyMethod").Single();
```

Symbol equality is complex due to generics and substitution - always test with multiple generic scenarios.

Commit message:

updates build instructions for all copilot instructions

.github/instructions/Compiler.instructions.md, after:

# Roslyn Compiler Instructions for AI Coding Agents

---
applyTo: "src/{Compilers,Dependencies,ExpressionEvaluator,Tools}/**/*.{cs,vb}"
---

## Architecture Overview

Roslyn follows a **layered compiler architecture**:
- **Lexer → Parser → Syntax Trees → Semantic Analysis → Lowering/Rewriting → Symbol Tables → Emit**
- Core abstraction: `Compilation` is immutable and reusable. Create new compilations via `AddSyntaxTrees()`, `RemoveSyntaxTrees()`, `ReplaceSyntaxTree()` for incremental changes
- **Internal vs Public APIs**: Use `InternalSyntax` namespace for performance-critical parsing; `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis` for public consumption

### Key Directories
- `src/Compilers/Core/Portable/` - Language-agnostic compiler infrastructure
- `src/Compilers/CSharp/Portable/` - C# compiler implementation  
- `src/Compilers/VisualBasic/Portable/` - VB compiler implementation
- `src/Dependencies/` - High-performance collections (`PooledObjects`, `Threading`)
- `src/ExpressionEvaluator/` - Debugger expression evaluation (uses special `LexerMode.DebuggerSyntax`)
- `src/Tools/` - Compiler tooling (BuildBoss, format tools, analyzers)

## Essential Patterns

### Test Structure Convention
Inherit from language-specific base classes: `CSharpTestBase` for C#, `VisualBasicTestBase` for VB
```cs
public class MyTests : CSharpTestBase
{
    [Fact]
    public void TestMethod()
    {
        var comp = CreateCompilation(sourceCode);
        // Test compilation, symbols, diagnostics
    }
}
```

### Memory Management
- **Avoid LINQ in hot paths** - use manual enumeration or `struct` enumerators
- **Avoid `foreach` over collections without struct enumerators** 
- **Use object pools extensively** - see patterns in `src/Dependencies/PooledObjects/`
- **Prefer `Debug.Assert()` over exceptions** for internal validation

## Build & Test Workflows

### Essential Build Commands

Always set `DOTNET_CLI_WORKLOAD_UPDATE_NOTIFY_DISABLE=1` before running any `dotnet` command to prevent workload update checks that require network access and can cause build failures in restricted environments.

```powershell
# Full build (use VS Code tasks when available)
./build.sh

# Build specific components  
dotnet build Compilers.slnf                    # Compiler-only build
dotnet build src/Compilers/CSharp/csc/AnyCpu/  # C# compiler

# Generate compiler code after changes
dotnet run --file eng/generate-compiler-code.cs
```

### Testing Strategy
- **Unit tests**: Test individual compiler phases (lexing, parsing)
- **Compilation tests**: Create `Compilation` objects and verify symbols/diagnostics
- **Cross-language patterns**: Many test patterns work for both C# and VB with minor syntax changes
- **Keep tests focused**: Avoid unnecessary assertions. Tests should do the minimal work necessary to get to the core assertions that validate the issue being addressed. For example, use `Single()` instead of checking counts and then accessing the first element.

## Debugger Integration

**Expression Evaluator** uses special parsing modes:
- `LexerMode.DebuggerSyntax` for expression evaluation
- `IsInFieldKeywordContext` flag for context-aware parsing
- `ConsumeFullText` parameter for complete expression parsing

## MSBuild Integration

Compiler tasks are in `src/Compilers/Core/MSBuildTask/`:
- `Csc.cs` - C# compiler task
- `Vbc.cs` - VB compiler task  
- `ManagedCompiler.cs` - Base compiler task functionality

## Performance Considerations

1. **Lexer/Parser optimizations**: Use `InternalSyntax` types for performance-critical code
2. **Immutable data structures**: Roslyn heavily uses immutable collections and copy-on-write semantics
3. **Caching**: `Compilation` objects cache semantic information - reuse when possible
4. **Threading**: Most compiler operations are thread-safe through immutability

## Symbol Resolution

Navigate the symbol hierarchy:
```cs
var compilation = CreateCompilation(source);
var globalNamespace = compilation.GlobalNamespace;
var typeSymbol = globalNamespace.GetTypeMembers("MyClass").Single();
var methodSymbol = typeSymbol.GetMembers("MyMethod").Single();
```

Symbol equality is complex due to generics and substitution - always test with multiple generic scenarios.
